# Track Action Points

https://github.com/orgs/ietf-wg-nmop/projects/1

# Agenda Items (09/08/2025)
* Knowledge Graphs mailing list
* Olga's email Sept 2nd: Next steps for SIMAP
* https://github.com/orgs/ietf-wg-nmop/projects/1/views/1

# Agenda Items (09/02/2025)
* Knowledge Graphs: design team, mailing list, https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-pang-nmop-kg-for-traffic-monitoring-analysis/
* IETF124
* https://github.com/orgs/ietf-wg-nmop/projects/1/views/1
* Olga's message about SIMAP
* draft-ietf-netconf-notif-envelope, should we respond to WGLC and add nmop@ietf.org (or just fwd it to nmop@ietf.org)?

# Agenda Items (08/18/2025)
* Email from Thomas on draft-ietf-nmop-yang-message-broker-integration and draft-ietf-nmop-message-broker-telemetry-message
* Terminology doc
* https://github.com/orgs/ietf-wg-nmop/projects/1/views/1
  
# Agenda Items (08/14/2025)
* IETF123 notes and meeting minutes
* Knowledge Graphs
* IETF124 session requests
* Terminology doc
* RFC 3535bis next steps?
* https://github.com/orgs/ietf-wg-nmop/projects/1/views/1
  
# Agenda Items (08/07/2025)
* IETF123 notes and meeting minutes
* Terminology doc
* Quick document scan for next-steps
* Knowledge Graphs
* IETF124 session requests
  
# Agenda Items (07/14/2025)
* IETF123 agenda (double-check, request for last 5 mins etc)  
* Chair slides
* WG slides for OPSAREA (email from Med)
* Requesting slide upload from presenters
* Knowledge Graphs: DT mailing list + update
* Early YANG doctors and OPS DIR reviews

# Agenda Items (07/02/2025)
* NMOP mailing list password
* Agenda for IETF123
* Generating some traffic on the NMOP mailing list: next docs to be reviewed
* Adoption call for draft-netana-nmop-message-broker-telemetry-message
* KG team design team
* Digital Map (email from Olga to chairs)
* NMOP webex account?
* draft-boucadair-nmop-rfc3535-20years-later: IPR call done and adoption call next?

# Agenda Items (06/23/2025)
* Knowledge Graph Design Team
* Agenda for IETF123
* Generating some traffic on the NMOP mailing list: next docs to be reviewed
* Adoption call for draft-netana-nmop-message-broker-telemetry-message

# Agenda Items (06/17/2025)
* Knowledge Graph Design Team
* Agenda for IETF123
* Generating some traffic on the NMOP mailing list: next docs to be reviewed
* June 30th meeting to be rescheduled (to July 2nd?)
* Adoption call for draft-netana-nmop-message-broker-telemetry-message

# Agenda Items (06/09/2025)
* draft-netana-nmop-message-broker-telemetry-message-01
* Interim meeting minutes
* Knowledge Graph interim next steps e.g. discuss with AD and/or design team
* Next IETF meeting: share your incidents. Yes responses: Thomas (Swisscom), Boris (MTS)
* Generating some traffic on the NMOP mailing list

# Agenda Items (06/03/2025)
* Interim meeting minutes
* Knowledge Graph interim next steps e.g. discuss with AD
* Next IETF meeting: share your incidents
* Re-establish the https://github.com/orgs/ietf-wg-nmop/projects/1 process (+ add to the invite)

# Agenda Items (28/05/2025)
* draft-boucadair-nmop-rfc3535-20years-later
* Knowledge Graph interim minutes
* Knowledge Graph interim next steps e.g. discuss with AD

# Agenda Items (28/04/2025)
* draft-boucadair-nmop-rfc3535-20years-later
* Knowledge Graph interim
* draft-ietf-nmop-yang-message-broker-integration-07 (as co-chair and individual contributor)
* Next steps for the other adopted docs
* Next Monday => Tuesday

# Agenda Items (23/04/2025)
* terminology draft
* https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-lopez-opsawg-yang-provenance/ as NMOP document
* Request NMOP WG meeting(s) for IETF123. Need to coordinate with NETCONF?
* Knowledge Graph interim
* draft-boucadair-nmop-rfc3535-20years-later

# Agenda Items (14/04/2025)
* Response from Adrian for terminology document
* draft-boucadair-nmop-rfc3535-20years-later v/s NEMOPS report?
* RFC5706-bis
  
# Agenda Items (07/04/2025)
* Next step for terminology document (email from Adrian)
* Call for WG adoption for draft-boucadair-nmop-rfc3535-20years-later


# Agenda Items (31/03/2025)
* slack
* Review meeting minutes from Thomas
* Next step for terminology document (email from Adrian)
* Call for WG adoption for draft-boucadair-nmop-rfc3535-20years-later
* knowledge engine interim meeting

# Agenda Items (10/03/2025)

* Any last minute change to the IETF#122 agenda
* Review Chairs [slides](https://github.com/ietf-wg-nmop/IETF-Meetings/tree/main/122)

# Agenda Items (03/03/2025)

* Brief Reshad
* Interim meeting minutes: https://notes.ietf.org/notes-ietf-interim-2025-nmop-02-nmop
* Conclude the ongoing WGLC for terminology
* IETF#122 Agenda


# Agenda Items (24/02/2025)

* SIMAP interim minutes: ready?
* Documents
  + terminology: check latest review
  + latest anomaly I-Ds
* Interim this week: logistics
* Bangkok meeting
  + logistics
  + agenda items (second session is about hackathon & operator incident postmortem)
  + Initialized the page to track the slots ([here](https://github.com/ietf-wg-nmop/IETF-Meetings/blob/main/122/requested-slots.md))
* Change the call time to include Reshad (btw, off for 3 weeks)
  
# Agenda Items (week of Feb 10th)

* New process? Double IPR call, automatic directorate review
* NETCONF/NMOP interim
  + foreword by the NMOP chairs?

# Agenda Items (week of Feb 3rd)

* Ongoing WGLC for the terminology
  + no comment received so far
  + IPR poll replies OK ([replies](https://github.com/ietf-wg-nmop/Logistic/blob/main/ipr-poll-wglc/draft-ietf-nmop-terminology.md))
* Message broker
  + Publish the generic structure as a standalone (check with Andy for review)
  + Publish a new version of the broker and contact the chairs
  + Slide deck for the netconf interim

*  interim SIMAP
   + announced, .ics
   + agenda

* interim BBF
  + announced, .ics
  + agenda == Thomas to share a first proposal + Chairs review + approch BBF LS to check/review agenda

# Agenda Items (27/01/2025)

* Terminology I-D
  + WGLC by end of the week
  + LS to TMF: [draft](https://github.com/ietf-wg-nmop/Liaison-Statements-Out/blob/main/LS-TMF-NMOP-Terminology.md) 
* Joint interim with BBF: 26/02 picked (schedule the meeting/AP)
* Joint interim with netconf: nmop goals
  + Remove aelhassany-anydata-validation from the next version: replace with a summary of the issue to be solved
  + Benoît will contact the netconf chairs on the interim meeting
* IWON: Pick a slot to discuss with Flavio (IWON)/SIMAP
    + Friday 31st morning ==> Med to send the OO invit
* Bring your own outage:
    + DT/Bell Canada are OK to present in IETF#122
    + swisscom to present updates since last prez
* Anomaly docs status
   + update on semantic/inventory
   + arch to be updated soon
* New NMOP co-chair


# Agenda Items (13/01/2025)

* Future interims
  + Joint meeting with netconf
  + SIMAP
* WGLC for terminology I-D
* IETF#122 preparation

# Agenda Items (02/12/2024)

* Future Interims
   + SIMAP (14/01/25 15-17h CET): Received ACK from Italo|Thomas|Benoît <==
   + Terminology + anomaly + incident (Feb 15-17h CET): Post-Mortem cases and Bring Your Own Outage (Swisscom, DT)
   + Broker integration (End January/28/01/25 15-17h CET): ACK from Thomas <== (NETCONF WG)
* LS BBF: [draft](https://github.com/ietf-wg-nmop/Liaison-Statements-Out/blob/main/LS-Out-BBF-AIM-rev%20112024.md)

# Agenda Items (25/11/2024)

* Ongoing CFAs
  + conclude the calls
  + add milestones for the two docs

* Directorate reviews (terminlogy)
  + All received
  
* Future Interims
   + SIMAP (14/01/25 15-17h CET): Received ACK from Italo|Thomas|Benoît <==
   + Terminology + anomaly + incident (Feb 15-17h CET): Post-Mortem cases and Bring Your Own Outage (Swisscom, DT)
   + Broker integration (End January/28/01/25 15-17h CET): ACK from Thomas <== (NETCONF WG)
* LS BBF: [draft](https://github.com/ietf-wg-nmop/Liaison-Statements-Out/blob/main/LS-Out-BBF-AIM-rev%20112024.md)

# Agenda Items (18/11/2024)

* IETF#121 brief
   + Ongoing CFAs
   + Ongoing directorate reviews
* Future interims: SIMAP, anomaly, broker
   + SIMAP (14/01/25 15-17h CET): Received ACK from Italo|Thomas|Benoît <== TBC (Next Sync)
   + Terminology + anomaly + incident (28/01/25 15-17h CET)
   + Broker integration ( 15-17h CET): ACK from Thomas <== TBC (NETCONF WG)
* LS BBF: [draft](https://github.com/ietf-wg-nmop/Liaison-Statements-Out/blob/main/LS-Out-BBF-AIM-rev%20112024.md)
* SIMAP Scope

# Agenda Item (22/10/2024)

* agenda for the IETF

# Agenda Item (30/09/2024)

* Interim meeting: [Chairs Slides](https://github.com/ietf-wg-nmop/IETF-Meetings/blob/main/interim-102024/nmop-chairs-slides.pptx)

# Agenda Items (23/09/2024)

* Shepherding dispatch: proposal
  
   + draft-ietf-nmop-terminology (Med) 
   + draft-ietf-nmop-network-anomaly-architecture (Benoît)
   + draft-ietf-nmop-yang-message-broker-integration (Med)
   + draft-ietf-nmop-digital-map-concept (Med)
   + draft-ietf-nmop-network-incident-yang (Benoît)

* Preparation of the interim on digital map

# Agenda Items (16/09/2024)

* Ongoing call for adoption
* Follow-up from the interim on anomaly
* Preparation of the future interim on digital map
* nemops update

# Agenda Item (08/07/2024)

* IETF#120 NMOP agenda

# Agenda Item (01/07/2024)

* IETF#120 Preparation
* Digital Map concept & Requirements
* IAB Workshop update
  
# Agenda Item (24/06/2024)

* IETF#120 Preparation
* Digitam Map concept & Requirements
* IAB Workshop update
  
# Agenda Item (17/06/2024)

* IETF#120 Preparation: Send call for slot request  (use https://github.com/ietf-wg-nmop/IETF-Meetings/blob/main/120/Requested-Slots.md)
* Structure the work about anomaly management
* Milestones
* Interim follow-up
* IAB workshop latest update?

# Agenda Item (04/06/2024)

* Interim logistics
   + Initiliazed [minutes](https://notes.ietf.org/notes-ietf-interim-2024-nmop-01-nmop?view) (Done)
   + Post Chairs [Slides](https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/interim-2024-nmop-01/materials/slides-interim-2024-nmop-01-sessa-chairs-slides-00) (Done)
* Document Status
* Structure the work about anomaly management
* Milestones
* IETF#120 Preparation


# Agenda Items (27/05/2024)

* CFAs
* Interim
* IAB Workshop
* Incident Mgt Structuring
* Next IETF Meeting

# Agenda Items (13/05/2024)

* Interim
  + TEAS Slot
* IAB Workshop
   + https://networkautomation.forum/autocon1
   + Incident Mgt Structuring

# Agenda Items (07/05/2024)

* CFAs Status
* Interim
  + TEAS Slot
* LS
* IAB Workshop
  + https://networkautomation.forum/autocon1
* Incident Mgt Structuring


# Agenda Items (22/04/2024)

* LSes Out

   + ITU: [LS-ITU-Federated-Learning](https://github.com/ietf-wg-nmop/Liaison-Statements-Out/blob/main/LS-ITU-Federated-Learning-rev%20042024.md)
   + TMF: [LS-Out-TMF-Incident-management](https://github.com/ietf-wg-nmop/Liaison-Statements-Out/blob/main/LS-Out-TMF-Incident-management-rev%20042024.md)
   + ETSI: [Digital Twin](https://github.com/ietf-wg-nmop/Liaison-Statements-Out/blob/main/LS-Out-ETSI-ZTM-rev%20042024.md)

Send the LS to the OPSAWG chairs to check if they are OK
Send the LS to the list for review by 26/04/2024

* Status of ongoing Calls

* IPR Polls
  + IPR Poll for [draft-davis-nmop-incident-terminology](https://github.com/ietf-wg-nmop/Logistic/blob/main/ipr-poll-cfa/draft-davis-nmop-incident-terminology.md): OK   
  + IPR Poll for [draft-feng-nmop-network-incident-yang](https://github.com/ietf-wg-nmop/Logistic/blob/main/ipr-poll-cfa/draft-feng-nmop-network-incident-yang.md): NOK
  + IPR Poll for [draft-netana-nmop-yang-kafka-integration](https://github.com/ietf-wg-nmop/Logistic/blob/main/ipr-poll-cfa/draft-netana-nmop-yang-kafka-integration.md): OK

* CFAs: Scheduled first week of May (Med will take care of the calls)

* Digital Map: interim to trigger discussion (04/06/2024)

* Misc.
   + Socialize NMOP in [AutoCon](https://networkautomation.forum/autocon1)
